# Cadre: Democratizing Private Investments

## Overview

Cadre, a New York City FinTech startup founded in 2014, is an online marketplace that allows investors to invest directly in alternative assets. Ryan Williams, while working at Blackstone, heard investors complaining about not being able to choose the properties that Blackstone funds invest in as well as their inability to exit positions at their own discretion. Williams was also not fond of the high fees being charged by traditional real estate funds. Williams had an idea. He then reached out to a former classmate and friend, Joshua Kushner, who was founder of the venture capital firm, Thrive Capital, and his brother Jared Kushner who was CEO at Kushner Companies. The three agreed that Williams would be the CEO of Cadre, Joshua would help to recruit tech talent and VC introductions, and Jared would list initial deals on the Cadre platform. Jared and Josh would each also put money towards Cadre and introduce Williams to investors and other real estate operators.

The idea behind Cadre was to syndicate commercial real estate deals from various real estate operators on an online marketplace which would be open to accredited investors who could then invest in the properties. However, the idea goes deeper. Many investors are able to invest in each property. So, an asset class once reserved for millionaires and billionaires has now become accessible to mass affluent individuals. Commercial real estate is an industry that is notorious for being opaque and slow moving. Cadre, through the use of technology, could offer more transparency, lower fees, more liquidity, more accessibility, higher quality investments, and faster transactions. The idea behind Cadre has proved to be worthwhile as Cadre has backing from some of the successful companies and individuals in the world. In Series A of fundraising in 2015, Cadre was able to raise $18.3 million from Thrive Capital (Joshua Kushner), Founders Fund (Peter Theil), Khosla Ventures (Vinod Khosla), General Catalyst, Slow Ventures, Wendi Murdoch, Gin Lane, Sherpa Capital, and Lakestar. In Series B of fundraising in 2016, Cadre was able to raise $50 Million from Goldman Sachs, Recharge Capital, SL Green, Ford Foundation, Apoletto Managers(Yuri Milner), and previous investors. In Series C of fundraising in 2017, Cadre was able to raise $65 million from Breyer Capital, Andreessen Horowitz, Class 5 Global, and previous investors. Others who have undisclosed stakes in Cadre include George Soros, Jack Ma, Mark Cuban, and Mike Fascitelli. Soros has pledged a $250 million financial backstop to help with liquidity and balance sheet issues that may arise if investors fall through. The backstop has never been used.

## Business Activities

The goal of Cadre is to democratize investing in alternative assets. Bringing asset classes that were previously inaccessible to the general public. Currently, only commercial real estate deals are listed on Cadre, but Cadre has plans to expand their marketplace to other alternative assets as well.

Commercial real estate is a Jurassic industry; There are high barriers to entry, transactions move slowly, investments are illiquid, quality data is hard to come by, management fees can be exorbitant, and the industry is slow to adopt new technology. Cadre, through its online marketplace has solutions for each of these shortcomings. An asset class once reserved for the very wealthy has now become accessible the masses. Through crowdfunding, people have access to commercial real estate for much less money. Through technology and data analytics, Cadre is able to process transactions for itself and its customers much faster than the traditional investing process. Cadre has also created a secondary marketplace in which investors can sell their stakes after a year, something that has never been done before in this industry. Unlike REITs or private equity, Cadre allows users to look at market and submarket data, plus in depth asset and portfolio analytics. Founder, Ryan Williams has said that you can save up to 40% in fees compared to REITs and private equity funds. This is due to the fact that Cadre, being a FinTech firm, has much less overhead than traditional investors. Cadre, also uses its technology expertise to curate high quality investments on its marketplace which lead to higher quality investments than a traditional brokerage trying to sell you something. Additionally, Cadre provides the option to have a managed portfolio, in which the minimum is $10,000 across 10 properties.

Currently, Cadre works with institutional investors, financial advisors, family offices, and high-net-worth-individuals. In order to invest you have to be an accredited investor which means having an annual income greater than $200K, joint income greater than $300K, or net worth greater than $1M (excluding primary residence). Ryan Williams, has said publicly that Cadre hopes to scale its marketplace so that it becomes accessible to a wider group of investors. There are 5.28 million high-net-worth-individuals in the United States and 22.4 million high-net-worth-individuals worldwide. In order for a foreign entity to invest with Cadre, they must have $5 million of investable assets. The minimum investment is $50,000 per deal or $10,000 per deal across 10 deals in a managed portfolio.

Cadre's secret sauce is its technological prowess and its team. Through the use of technology, Cadre can do thorough analysis on commercial properties and markets, choosing only those with a high probability of success. Additionally, the use of technology allows Cadre to underwrite deals much faster than the traditional method which gives Cadre a pricing edge. Being a FinTech company, rather than a real estate firm, allows Cadre to reduce their overhead costs and also reduce fees charged to investors. Their team has over $50 billion in real estate transaction experience from firms like Blackstone and Goldman Sachs. The chair of Cadre's investment committee is Michael Fascitelli, former CEO of Vornado Realty Trust and head of Goldman Sachs Real Estate Investment Banking. Head of product, Michael Borovsky, was previously director of product at Square. Leonid Movsesyan, the VP of engineering, was previously a senior engineering manager at Dropbox. Cadre has Managing Directors and Analysts from top firms and universities plus established venture capital firms backing them. High level investing, especially real estate is based on relationships.

Cadre utilizes technology in a myriad of ways. They have a technological edge both in the back end and the front end of their operations. Investors want the highest return for the least amount of risk. Knowing this, Cadre must make sure that it lists investments that provide solid returns while minimizing downside. Cadre must collect and process data to determine which investments are up to snuff. Cadre collects data from public sources, third party sources, and its own sources. The data comes from over 100 sources, tracks over a million assets, and over 900 submarkets. So far, this seems like something any large private equity firm, REIT, or brokerage could do. These firms do not share their data with customers, unlike Cadre. The differentiator is Cadre's ability to innovate using software. One example is using machine learning to target real estate markets. Cadre assesses future submarket growth by forecasting RevPAF (revenue per available foot) 1, 3, and 5 years forward. Cadre is able to forecast RevPAF down to a zip code level which allows them to be highly accurate. Once RevPAF has been modeled, Cadre must then understand what drives RevPAF, and then visualize a current market snapshot with predictions. Being able to forecast and value the market correctly leads to better investment decisions and higher returns for investors.

Commercial real estate transactions are notoriously slow because of the involvement of so many different parties; the buyer, the seller, the brokers, the banks, regulations, and the lawyers. Cadre has utilized technology to speed up the transaction process substantially. Not can investors fill out all of their paperwork online, the forms are shorter and easier to complete. You can invest in 3 days, which is lightyears faster than the traditional transaction time. Because Cadre transactions are done online, Cadre could be one of the first companies to facilitate real estate transactions through security tokens or DLT (distributed ledger technology).

Since, Cadre operates its own marketplace, it was able to also create a secondary marketplace where investors can sell their stakes in in commercial properties. This is quite possibly the most innovative feature across Cadre. By being able to create a secondary marketplace, Cadre has added liquidity to an asset class that is largely illiquid. This opens up the asset and the platform to more investors because liquidity is valuable. The fact that Cadre is an online marketplace means that the company has less overhead than REITs, private equity firms, and brokerages. This allows to charge lower fees than these firms and therefore create a higher return for investors. The crowdfunding model is also highly innovative as it makes a complicated asset class more attainable for the general population. Investors no longer need $50+ million to invest in Class A real estate; They dt need a broker, a loan, a developer, or a lawyer. Additionally, investors have the ability to diversify across many different properties, which would be even more time and capital intensive. With $100,000 an investor could invest across 10 different commercial properties.

## Landscape

Cadre is a FinTech company, but is niche, as it currently only offers commercial real estate. As stated above, real estate is a slow moving industry that is ready for disruption. Cadre, could also be viewed as an investment management or advisory company. They offer a managed portfolio option with a $100,000 minimum. Once Cadre expands past commercial real estate, it will most likely be viewed as an online marketplace or investment manager. People who have kept up with socioeconomic and market trends over the past decade are aware of a few finance trends. First, is the "race to zero", which means that banks, discount brokers, asset managers, and advisors are all reducing fees in the hopes of increasing their assets under management(AUM). Second, is that a large segment of the US population is aging. This means that more people will be retiring, which means that pensions, insurance companies, and funds will need to have the money to pay disbursements. Combined, these factors have led to an increase of demand for high performing investments. Insurance companies and pensions have increased their appetite for private equity and alternative assets in search of higher returns. A drawback to this is that commercial real estate and other large assets are being concentrated in private equity funds, pensions, insurance companies, and asset managers. Enter FinTech.

FinTech startups have been critical in the democratization of opportunities for everyday people. Examples of democratization include a decentralized form of money (cryptocurrency), no commission stock trading, no fee online banking, peer to peer lending, crowdfunding, peer to peer payments, homesharing, ecommerce, and payment processing innovations. As far as real estate goes, the laggard industry is ready for disruption. Platforms like Airbnb have made it possible to share your home or rent out a property. This allows users to profit off of inefficiencies in owning real estate. An example, would be renting out your home while you're away or renting out an extra bedroom. Startups that are increasing CRE (commercial real estate) transaction speed, transparency and analytics are VTS and Real Capital Markets. Coworking startups such as Knotel and Wework are also revolutionizing how office space is used. iCapital Network is a startup that allows investors to invest in private equity and hedge funds for $100,000 which is much lower than traditional minimums.

In the realm of CRE investing, other crowdfunding startups are Fundrise, RealtyMogul, and Crowdstreet. None of these companies have raised more than 50% of the funding that Cadre has raised. Each company has different investment minimums, Fundrise's minimum investment is $500 but it will be distributed across at least 5 properties. RealtyMogul offers eREITS for a minimum investment of $5,000 and individual properties for minimums ranging $15,000-50,000. Crowdstreet offers stakes individual properties and eREITs starting at $25,000 and $50,000. Performance metrics within this domain would include average IRR, amount of capital invested, transaction value, and distributions returned to investors. Cadre has invested in $1.5 billion worth of real estate, while Fundrise has invested in $2.5 billion, and RealtyMogul $2 billion. Crowdstreet has averaged 25.5% IRR across fully realized deals, Fundrise has average annualized returns of 10.79% over the past 5 years, and Cadre has a target IRR of 10-15%+ per transaction. Crowdstreet has distributed $64 Million to investors on $670 million of invested capital and RealtyMogul has distributed $120 Million on $400 million of investments. Cadre and Fundrise did not provide this information. Each platform has its own efficiencies and appeals to different groups of investors, though there is overlap. Cadre is specific in that it only offers direct investment in large commercial deals. Whereas its competitors offer a wider range of commercial properties as well as eREITs. Currently Cadre has differentiated itself with a secondary marketplace, and in the future by offering different asset classes.

CEO Ryan Williams has stated publicly that he wants to scale Cadre to be available to more people than just accredited investors which will help Cadre grow its base. But Williams also wants to be more disruptive in that he wants to offer other alternative assets that are unavailable to the masses such as farmland, timber, loans, energy, and infrastructure. Different investors have different preferences, for those who want to invest directly in alternative assets not limited to real estate, Cadre will be the go to option.

## Recommendations

Cadre has a good thing going for it in that it offers high quality commercial real estate as well as a secondary market. It is also only available to accredited investors which makes the platform niche. As it expands beyond accredited investors, it must consider the impact on its brand. Will it offer eREITs with low investment minimums? Will it invest in smaller deal sizes? Cadre currently offers properties in the $50-200 million dollar range. Because of this, the cash flow and rate of return should be stable and predictable. What if investors want higher returns? One answer would be to offer smaller deals that offer more upside. A drawback to this would be that funding would get secured very quickly, and potential investors would be left without properties to invest in (demand > supply). Another way to increase returns would be to create a fund in which the company could raise large amounts of capital. This would allow Cadre to buy entire portfolios at a discount, but would diminish the crowdfunding aspect of the business. More aggressive opportunities could be offered.

The average investor is comfortable outsourcing asset management and wealth advisory services, but there are investors who like to be more hands on. Cadre might analyze a property and see a potential return of x, and I might look at a property and see a potential return of y; But only one of us is able to buy the property. Cadre could offer the ability the invest in whole assets whether it be commercial real estate, residential real estate or other assets. It could streamline the brokerage process and take a small cut. It could allow peer to peer sale of assets through security tokens and smart contracts. Once the title has transferred, the risk and reward lies solely on the investor. Offering this kind of service would require a legal team and regulatory compliance, which would increase costs. Cadre could also offer a service where it uses data to find properties that are heavily discounted, take a percentage or fixed fee, and then list the property on its own marketplace still under market value. This is one way to tap into the mainstream market. Cadre is a broker-dealer, so it does have an entry into brokerage and transaction services.

I believe that Cadre likes the crowdfunding model and will stick to it. Cadre's role in the future will likely be to offer accessible private equity. Ryan Williams, has already stated that other alternative assets are on the horizon for Cadre. Crowdfunding might limit the size of deals that are available on Cadre. In theory, Cadre might be able to crowdfund loans to purchase assets while still offering direct stakes in the purchased asset. Each asset class that is added to Cadre will require its own group on specialists who will approve deals.

The primary growth factor for Cadre is through increase the size of its marketplace, which occurs through growing volume of users, money, and transactions in its marketplace. An easy driver is access to the secondary growth market. Then, a wider range of investments across both asset classes and returns. After that, I would try to innovate using peer to peer options, which could involve cryptocurrency or DLT. I would also at some point open up the marketplace beyond accredited investors or create a tier of investments for unaccredited investors. Finally, to ensure profitability and growth, I would take a small slice of every transaction.